**Raspberry Pi & Radar Subsystems**
This folder contains all of the code that is needed to be run on the raspberry pi. For this project, a raspberry pi 5 SBC was used along with a IWR1642BOOST evaluation radar board from TI. The two were connected usign a micro-USB to USB connector. The raspberry pi in this project acts as the mediators between all other subsystems and the central point where everything is run (using threaded runners).

To get the WiFi to work, it is possible to either hardcode the heartbeart and app locations/API key or to set it up using the environment (to hide API keys/urls and add a layer of protection). This second method is preferred for safety, but the first is better for ease of use. To set up the first mehtod, simply replace the first 3 lines of code in wifi.py with the hardcoded versions. To set up the second method, first set up the run on boot (described in the last paragraph). From there go into the command line and type in sudo nano /etc/fall-detector.env. In this document, add the Alert publish url, Heartbeat url, and API key, i.e. ALERT_PUBLISH_URL=https://......., ALERTS_API_KEY=....., making sure to follow the formatting of the variables from wifi and not adjsuting anything about the url. From there optionally use sudo chmod 600 /etc/fall-detector.env and sudo chown root:root /etc/fall-detector.env to make it only readable by root (increasing the security).

If the goal is to run the code while the pi is connected to either a laptop via ssh or plugged into a monitor and have the output on a console, the main requirements are that the system is correctly wired up and all of the files (in this folder) are in one directory in the rapsberry pi. Additionally, it is necessary that the folder contains both a .onnx ML file with the model you are using, along with the associated scaler.save and requirements.txt files. From there naviagte to main.py and run the program. If it is done correctly, it will show the radar board being programmed, and after 20s fall/no fall outputs should begin in the terminal in 5s incrments.

To run the program off boot and restart (as would be intended for the actual product), edit the myapp.service file to correctly reflect the location of main and the correct raspberry pi user. Then open up systemd using sudo cp myapp.service /etc/systemd/system in the command line before restarting: sudo systemctl restart myapp.service. From there the program should work as intended and run off of boot on the raspberry pi. To check the status of it in the command line, use systemctl status myapp.service.
